# Local PL Conference Manual

## Preface

This is a living document designed to provide local PL conference organizers with enough information
to organize the event at their institution. The guidelines in this document are suggestions (e.g.,
there is no need to follow the styles exactly), but staying consistent from year to year is an easy
way to make the whole endeavor seem a bit more legitimate.

As an organizer it is your responsibility to update this document with data and information from
your iteration of the event.

## Style

Templates for fliers, name badges, and other assets have can be found in this Git repository. Harry
Goldstein created these assets in Affinity Publisher, a relatively inexpensive (but not free)
publishing suite. He highly recommends it, but these designs should be compatible with Adobe InDesign
or Illustrator as well.

Event managers at universities frequently engage in formatting and printing for events. You could
also consider delegating this task to them.

## Website

This repository contains source code (in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript) for a simple conference website.
Feel free to use the designs as-is or adapt them as you see fit.

## Sponsorship and Funding

We highly recommend finding (ideally relatively local) industrial sponsors for the event. These
events are generally fairly informal, and asking participants to pay a registration fee may
discourage attendance. We recommend doing your own budgeting for food and space depending on your
projected attendance, but something in the ballpark of 5000 USD is often a good starting point (as
of 2025).

## Food

This section describes tips for providing food.

### Logistics

We highly recommend getting help with food logistics. It is a large job unto itself, and would be a
pain for the organizer to have to think about during the event. Universities often have staff who
can take charge of food logistics, but it would work just as well with a dedicated group of
well-prepared students.

### Dietary Restrictions

The template registration form lists a small set of dietary restrictions and allows for write-in.
Make sure that your caterer can support the listed ones; others can be supported via alternative
methods (e.g., ordering special food from a local vendor).

## Registration, Talk Proposals, and Attendance

This section discusses the thought process behind the forms that were provided to attendees.

### Registration

The registration form aimed to collect all of the information needed to support a participant at the
event. This includes

* Email
* Name
* Affiliation
* Dietary Restrictions
* Other Comments

We included a checkbox on the form to force users to double-check name tag information (starred
above) and their email address. This can be skipped if using write-on name tags (although printed
ones are a nice touch).

If opting for printed name tags, we recommend either (1) double-sided printing or (2) tags that
connect to the lanyard on the corners rather than the center. Both would be even better.

### Talk Proposals and Selection

Talk submissions can either be done via the registration form or via a separate survey / submission
form.

We recommend asking for the following information:

* Title
* Abstract
* Extended abstract / other information

The former two will go on the website, the latter is just to help with choosing talks. Long
abstracts are difficult to fit on the website, so we suggest setting a pretty strict word limit.  If
you notice that you are getting far more talk submissions than you can have talks, you may consider
requiring longer-form extended abstracts in the form of \~2 page PDFs; this can be helpful in making
talk selections.

### Attendance

Your first couple of events may be difficult to predict in terms of attendance, so we recommend
choosing a venue with quite a bit of extra space.

## Talks

This section describes the process of selecting and scheduling talks.

### Selection

As an organizer, you are free to choose talks in any way you see fit, and with whatever help youâ€™d
like to request. You may choose to maximize breadth of institutions and talk topics, or you may
simply try to choose the most interesting talks with the help of a small "program committee."

### Scheduling

If possible, we recommend 20-25 minute slots (\~17-20 minutes for the talk \+ \~3-5 for questions).
It is long enough to get to an interesting nugget of information without getting boring. You can
choose to go longer or shorter.

### Session Chairs

About a week before the event (once registration has closed) we recommend reaching out a few
attendees and asking them to be session chairs. You could also opt to have students chair the
sessions, but it is a good opportunity to connect with prominent visitors.

Chairs simply need to keep things moving on schedule and ask a question if the audience has none.

## Publicity

This section describes the different ways to publicize the event.

### Social Media

We recommend publicizing the event as much as possible on social media. Be sure to remind people as
registration / talk submission deadlines get close.

### Email Outreach

We recommend making an email list for your event. We also recommend reaching out to colleagues
directly and asking that they attend (and submit talks).

## Logistics

This section outlines a few tips and tricks for day-of logistics.

### Dedicated Volunteers

Most of the work for organizing a local conference can be done by a small handful of people, but
getting a few more people involved for day-of tasks is useful. They can help get A/V set up, watch
the registration table, put up signs, and handle other small issues that might come up.

### A/V Setup

We recommend having speakers test their slides a few minutes before each session. Doing this is
especially critical if the schedule is tight.